[js] add mail-client doc (#1027)
SAP/cloud-sdk: docs-js/features/mail-client/mail-client.mdx

---
title: Send e-mails
sidebar_label: Send e-mails
description: How to send emails from application deployed on the SAP BTP
keywords:
  - sap
  - cloud
  - sdk
  - mail
  - email
  - e-mail
  - BTP
  - On-premise
  - JavaScript
  - TypeScript
---

> This documentation describes how you can send e-mails from application deployed on the BTP to your e-mail servers.

Reviewer: There are some vale failure.

> This documentation describes how you can send e-mails from application deployed on the SAP BTP to your e-mail servers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This documentation describes how you can send e-mails from applications deployed on the SAP BTP to your e-mail servers.
```

When defining e-mail servers by using the `destination` service on the SAP BTP, both `Internet` and `On-Prem` destinations are supported.

## Installation

Run this command in your root directory of your project to install the `mail-client` dependency and add it to your `dependency` list:

```
npm install @sap-cloud-sdk/mail-client
```

## Examples

> Let's get started by writing a minimal example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section you find minimal examples illustrating how to send email using the SAP Cloud SDK.
```

### Send an E-Mail

> First, create a `mailConfig` that contains all the essential information of an e-mail, including the following below:

Reviewer: [pp] I find this part 
```
including the following below: 

- the e-mail address of the sender
- the e-mail addresses of the recipients
- the subject
- the e-mail body
 ```

Not really useful. From the example below with the from, to subject and text it becomes clear.

- the e-mail address of the sender
- the e-mail addresses of the recipients
- the subject
- the e-mail body

```ts
import {
  sendMail,
  MailConfig,
  MailClientOptions
} from '@sap-cloud-sdk/mail-client';

const mailConfig: MailConfig = {
  from: 'from@example.com',
  to: 'to@example.com',
  subject: 'e-mail subject',
  text: 'e-mail text'
};
```

Second, we send the e-mail by calling the function `sendMail` with the `mailConfig` created:

```ts
sendMail({ destinationName: 'my-mail-destination' }, [mailConfig]);
```

The first parameter is either a [destination](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/api/2.9.0/interfaces/sap_cloud_sdk_connectivity.Destination) object or [DestinationFetchOptions](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/api/2.9.0/interfaces/sap_cloud_sdk_connectivity.DestinationFetchOptions).
For productive environment, you should use the `destination service` on the SAP BTP and reference the destination by name just like the example above.
`{ destinationName: 'my-mail-destination' }` is the minimal object that is typed as `DestinationFetchOptions`.

> For test environment, in addition to using the `DestinationFetchOptions`, you can also pass a complete `destination` object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For test environment, instead of using the `DestinationFetchOptions`, you can also pass a complete `destination` object.
```

:::caution Caution

> As the destination object might contain credentials, using it in production should be prohibited.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As the destination object might contain credentials, using it in production should be avioded.
```

:::

You can read more about the abstraction of the `destination` in the documentation [here](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/docs/js/features/connectivity/destination).

### Send Multiple E-Mails

The code snippets below shows how to send 2 e-mails with the `mailConfig` that we created in the previous example.
The e-mails are sent in parallel by default.

```ts
sendMail({ destinationName: 'my-mail-destination' }, [mailConfig, mailConfig]);
```

#### Send E-Mails in Sequential

> Sometimes you prefer sending e-mail in sequential instead of in parallel due to e.g., the limit of your e-mail server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Sometimes you prefer sending e-mail in sequential instead of in parallel due to e.g., the rate limit of your e-mail server.
```

> You can also provide an optional parameter like the example below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send e-mails in sequential, set the `parallel` option to `false`:
```

```ts
sendMail({ destinationName: 'my-mail-destination' }, [mailConfig, mailConfig], {
  sdkOptions: {
    parallel: false
  }
});
```

:::tip

As the parallelization is the default behaviour, you don't have to set `parallel: true` explicitly.

:::

### Configure `nodemailer`

> The SAP Cloud SDK uses a node package `nodemailer` under the wood.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK uses the node package `nodemailer` under the wood.
```

> The `nodemailer` supports creating a `transport` based on options listed in their [documentation](https://nodemailer.com/smtp/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nodemailer` supports creating a `transport` based on options listed in their [documentation](https://nodemailer.com/smtp/).
```

The SAP Cloud SDK exposes these options (as `SmtpTransportOptions`) and will transfer them based on user input.

> For example, you can provide the `tls` option like below to solve the self signed certificate issue.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, you can provide the `tls` option like below to circumvent issues with self-signed certificates:
```

```ts
sendMail({ destinationName: 'my-mail-destination' }, [mailConfig], {
  tls: {
    rejectUnauthorized: false
  }
});
```

The SAP Cloud SDK API documentation of the complete `SmtpTransportOptions` can be found in the API doc [here](https://sap.github.io/cloud-sdk/api/2.9.0/interfaces/mailclient_src.SmtpTransportOptions).

#### Proxy

> The `nodemailer` also supports defining proxy option as mentioned [here](https://nodemailer.com/smtp/proxies/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`nodemailer` also supports defining proxy option as mentioned [here](https://nodemailer.com/smtp/proxies/).
```

Similar to other `nodemailer` options, the `proxy` key is also part of the `SmtpTransportOptions`.

> You can find a minimal example below for defining an HTTP proxy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can find a minimal example below for defining an HTTP proxy:
```

```ts
sendMail({ destinationName: 'my-mail-destination' }, [mailConfig], {
  proxy: 'http://my-proxy-host:1234'
});
```

> Using socks proxy is not supported for the time being.

Reviewer: [pp] Perhaps make a statement that the SDK does support the connectivity proxy provided from SAP BTP for on-Prem mail servers.

Reviewer: and link the section below.

:::caution

The SAP Cloud SDK will pass the proxy option directly to the `nodemailer`, but the proxy feature is not end-to-end tested.
We assume the `nodemailer` lib handles it properly.

:::

## On-Premise Destination

The SAP Cloud SDK supports using `OnPremise` destination as well.
From the SAP Cloud SDK API perspective, the code looks similar, no matter you use `OnPremise` destinations or `Internet` destinations.
The only difference is that you have to reference the name of the On-Premise destination, which is obvious.

### What's the Difference

> First, for applications deployed on the SAP BTP, you need a `connectivity` service for connecting to an `OnPremise` destination.

Reviewer: [req] Align writing of `On-Premise` I think we like the one with the `-`

> Second, a `Cloud Connector` is used as a proxy for accessing the `On-Premise system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Second, a `Cloud Connector` is used as a proxy for accessing the `On-Premise` system.
```

> Therefore, you have to make sure the configuration set up is working.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Therefore, you have to make sure the configuration setup is working.
```

> Here you can find some [documentation](https://help.sap.com/docs/BTP/65de2977205c403bbc107264b8eccf4b/8d1f989deca1455dabc3d81b433fbdaf.html) from the SAP BTP.

Reviewer: [pp] I would join the two sentences: `Please make sure the mail destination is configured correctly as discussed in the [documentation]().`

### `SOCKS5` Proxy Implementation

> As mentioned in this [documentation](https://help.sap.com/docs/CP_CONNECTIVITY/cca91383641e40ffbe03bdc78f00f681/cd1583775afa43f0bb9ec69d9dbcc880.html?locale=en-US) of the SAP BTP, using `SOCKS5` proxy for accessing On-Premise systems from applications on SAP BTP needs `SOCKS5` authentication flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using a `SOCKS5` proxy for accessing On-Premise systems from applications on SAP BTP requires the `SOCKS5` authentication flow as explained [here](https://help.sap.com/docs/CP_CONNECTIVITY/cca91383641e40ffbe03bdc78f00f681/cd1583775afa43f0bb9ec69d9dbcc880.html?locale=en-US).
```

> The SAP Cloud SDK handles the `SOCKS5` proxy implementation for the user when detecting an `OnPremise` mail destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The SAP Cloud SDK handles the `SOCKS5` proxy implementation automatically when detecting an `OnPremise` mail destination.
```

> The On-Premise connectivity is end-to-end tested, but is sometimes flaky due to most likely the target On-Premise system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In our end-toend tests the On-Premise use case suffered from flakiness.
```
